the month of February, leaving our old location on Bryant Street south of Market, and moving over 100 tons of type by hand.
That's aside from, you'll see lots of heavy equipment downstairs, which was moved by heavy machine removers, but we picked 100 tons of type cases,
fonts and so forth, which we had to move essentially by hand.
We had to take it out of the racks on Bryant Street, put it on dollies.
Movers moved the dollies over to here, but then we had to pick it up again.
Wow.
Do you have more space here?
Yes.
We had 10,000 square feet of space on.
Brian Street, and now we have 14.
So it's 40% more, but the way the space is divided up, we have a bit less space for production.
There's more space for the public and for gallery and display areas.
Who's in Ariane?
Ariane.
the legendary Greek poet.
Saved from the sea by a dolphin.
It's a boy riding on a dolphin, but he's supposed to be a mature man with a lyre in hand.
So it's a take off on the idea that the grab horn press would be
the dolphin, foiling the horn, rather.
Not the anchor, but the horn.
The anchor was the Aldean press.
And you're a poet.
And so I'm the boy.
I got it.
This building had quite elephant for the Presidio Trust, and the real estate people were
encouraged to find a space for it.
Why would it be a white elephant?
Well, it's an old boiler plant, steam plant, for the public health service hospital.
It didn't look like it.
There was a lot of demolitions that we did.
There was a lot of industrial build-out in these spaces.
There's the old boiler room beyond that heavy wall, and the new boiler room beyond this wall.
which serves this building and the surrounding buildings.
But they didn't think they could lease this building, certainly not the lower level.
It suited our purposes.
We have three departments, a Tide Foundry, Composing Room, Press Room, where we are now, and then Book Findery, and linked by along corridors.
All of the staff of the Labyrinth have a school thinking.
Should Jerry and some people come in here, too?
Oh, let them eat their cake, as they say.
Where have I heard that before?
It's a coin of race.
So this is central to everything.
So are you happy here?
Oh, ecstatic.
We were able to arrange things in the best order we could conceive of, where we were before we were
We joined McKinsey and Harrisburg Type Foundry to sort of put our things down in and among their things.
And here we were able to really place the presses and the type cases and the worktops in places where they would be most efficiently used.
This is a large two-color cylinder press that we used for most of our printing work.
This is Louis Mitchell.
Hi, Louis.
Who's been working for Mackenzie and Harris for over 50 years.
He's our mainstay back in the type country.
We make new type all the time.
Were you casting type today, Louis?
Your design type as well?
I want to sometimes lend myself to advise.
This one.
This is a job that we are practicing.
It should be so warm.
Just slightly warm.
Keyboarding and casting.
This is monotype composition.
Individual letters, just like Antet talk.
Do you know the difference between the monotype and the linotype?
I used to work with in the newspapers.
So it casts individual letters just like that, much superior to the linotype, which has, as you know, raised letters on a slug.
This is a two-part operation.
So we have
to have a keyboard operator who punches the paper tape on a machine, which is then transported to the casting machine.
And punched holes tell the casting machine which letter or space to cast an order.
So, there's one of his...
percentage mark.
Now is it down to the keyboard?
Yeah, you'll see that when you get down.
Along this wall we have many of the historic types that we inherited from the grab horn press.
Many of these types go back to the turn of the century and even back into the 19th century.
Types that came to the grab horns from John Henry Nash, a famous printer from the turn of the century to
And then also some of the types that they got from him after he went bankrupt in his 30s.
And I was interested in talking about the types found in Europe and how some of these represent the best cuttings.
Right.
The Grabhorns tried to buy the best version of the type.
The Bauer of Bodoni, for example.
which they consider to be the best modern re-cutting that they're doing these types of stuff they bought.
And many of the types here are replaceable because some of these type foundries— They're irreplaceable?
Yeah, because the type foundries have either gone out of business or destroyed in the war.
So when you want to make a new set of type, how do you actually get the design into the machine?
To be built.
So when he's making—
What he's casting is pre-existing matrices from pre-existing matrices.
So these are here and that's it?
You can't replicate these?
So here you have a complete alphabet with different sizes.
And by irreplaceable, what Sandy was referring to is that the type foundry that originally cast them was destroyed in World War II or has been dismantled.
So you're not going to get this made again.
You know.
The M and H type foundry, you have matrices for casting both letters for hand setting and monotype composition, which you just saw.
So the handset, there's a huge collection of matrices here.
Those types can continue to be made.
And you remake them because you sort of run out of things or you run out of things?
Type will become worn.
And we also sell types to Tuscaners all over the country.
So that's why we're constantly casting.
It's not just for our own use.
But if we run out of the type in a case, or in a face that we can supply here, Lewis Mitchell can cast more for us.
You still sell type.
I used to buy type.
What we hear is that this is really the best source of type in the world.
These are type cases, but we're using it more temporarily as shelving for fonts that we're putting on sale at half off.
We've got excess inventory that we realize
We need to move since we make the move.
And just feel how heavy one of these things is.
Wow.
But these are all labels, are they not?
Now, you absorb this other company?
Well, we bought the type foundry back in the late 80s.
And it was just about to go out of business, and we managed to save it.
You moved all of this over?
This is part of the 150,000... Right.
Oh, wow, look at this, huh?
We're getting this kind of space in San Francisco in the late 1920s.
It's amazing.
Here's your monochrome, and this is the Matrix case.
I see.
And what happens is you have paper that has two holes in one hole.
Moved it so far one, so far the other.
Almost like a player piano.
It works that way.
This is wonderful.
It almost looks like it was designed for you, you know?
It really does.
Presidio didn't even know they had this room available.
Were you kept after them?
They opened a few doors and said, with this, we can make it half a block.
It's just perfectly fine.
And we now have natural light in all the workspaces.
We were in this dark warehouse building before.
This is your keyboard.
This is your Roman cap figure, lowercase.
Small cap.
italic on this side where's the italics how would you do it would you do a bold face here too i mean you could do that too right uh so we have
You have different layouts.
See, this one doesn't have what I want, but I'll show you.
Let me get the other one down.
This is fine.
That was a dumb question.
I'm sorry.
This one here, you have your Roman on this side, and you have your bull face on this side.
You change it.
I see.
13.
How old are these machines?
Like, how old?
Okay.
Now, this one here, you have your Roman, Italic, and Bullface in this one.
This is Times Roman.
He's pointing out that you can arrange the layout so that the keys will respond.
All these bars over here, you change these.
You put these underneath.
You put these in underneath there.
And these correspond to the matrix case.
And then we have different ones on the top there that designate between Roman, Metallic, and Versace.
And I interrupted you while you were typing, and I couldn't... No, no, no, that's it.
I was just showing you here how it works.
And what happens is, when you get to the end of the line, they're on it.
Now, you can get that 814, that line would come in within 1,007 inch.
Those are the justifiers.
We hit that, and that would put a spacing between each one.
Pre-computer, computer, right?
Right.
Basically, this is what it is.
And when HP first started and Adobe, they came here and they paid us to have their men here for a whole month to learn how type was made, how it was designed, how you put pieces of type together on the floor and also back in here so that they could perfect their system.
So this is late 19th century technology.
It really is.
And it's still the best.
There are those who say that the monotypes were the highest achievement of the Industrial Revolution.
This is very efficient.
Does it predate the linotype or does it come after the linotype?
It comes after, I believe.
There were so many systems for time and machine composition being developed.
You know, Mark Twain lost a lot of money on it.
He turned in a manuscript and a typewriter, in fact, didn't he?
Actually, this is the original typewriter.
It was straight up and down this way instead of on an angle.
You know, the way a computer... Yeah, it's got the standard QWERTY... It's still the same.
But the original typewriter, this is the way they had it, straight up and down.
And then they changed it so that it would be faster.
But Monotype never changed it.
Even the last ones that they made were still this way.
When did they start making these machines?
Now, it was about six or seven years ago.
The English Monotype Company sold the last one that they had.
If you have to have repairs, you have to make your own.
That's my job.
And if I can't get the part, then I make it.
I have a small little machine shop at home where I've had to make a few of the parts.
How many motor types do you have on these machines?
Well, I have these two that are used all the time, and then I have two spares that are in the other room we can move into place if we need them.
If one breaks down and I don't have time to repair it,
Lift these up.
They come off this pedestal.
We just lift them right off, and we put the other one in place and go.
How many of these do you think are still in operation, professional operation?
Professional?
Yeah.
Maybe four, six at the most professional.
But now you have a lot of amateurs that have these in their basements and in their garages.
In fact, there's quite a few back east that have them in barns.
Let me show you the matrix, then, what we have.
Nobody can compete with us for this reason.
Each one of those is a matrix case.
And that's not all of them.
I have probably a thousand more of them upstairs in this room up above here where the air compressor is.
that we just don't have room for them here, but I know where they are.
I've got a list where they are, and I can go run right up there and get them.
You know, we got a designation from the National Trust for Historic Preservation, and the reigning concept here, as you can imagine, really is the mold.
We have this extraordinarily complete
This is an archive as much as it is.
Yes, an archive, and once the molds are gone, there can't be any more, and so this is a really invaluable resource.
That could be the angle for me.
These are the larger typefaces for handset type.
Down here on the machines on the left here is where we make the handset type.
There is some spectrum that is just being run now, 18-point spectrum italic.
Is this an anachronism in your view?
No.
I mean, it's still a perfectly viable way of doing predicts.
Is it cost effective?
On short runs, definitely.
OK, here's the example.
If we were going to do an elaborate book and produce, say, 250 to 400 copies, this is perfect.
This is perfect.
Because if you were to do it on the computer, and then you'd have to make plates, all the set up and make ready, and then only print a few copies.
Here's a little souvenir picture.
Your flag and your liberty bell worked with a stamp band.
They grew them in an acid bath, and then they dovetailed those in, and they just regularly dovetailed those right into a piece of brass.
stamped those in brass and then comb plated.
So that's brass?
This is brass inside and then comb plated.
But this is brass.
Now what are you setting over here?
What would this be?
Okay, this is Bodoni's book.
In other words, what you do when you get through, you take a line of each one of these, and that makes a font of type.
I'm not through yet.
Down here, we've got a special order for some calendar mats.
And this was the overrun.
I always run extra so that when we get ready to make up the font and I look at it, if I find something that is bad, I can just grab one out and do it.
I always run at least four or five overrun on...
something like this, where you have those fine lines around the edge.
And we go that route.
And down here we have the largest type that we made, which is 72-point centaur.
72-point, huh?
72-point centaur, and that's the much bigger matrixes.
Now, again, we've got the English matrixes on this machine, but we do have lots of American
And these racks, both sides, just filled with matrixes, which you can't even buy anymore.
And so date these for me, if you would.
I'm using one down there that has a date in 1921.
Well, you've also got a casting machine over here that came
to the Panama Pacific Exposition, 1915.
And it's still in operation.
The best machine I've got.
What is that?
The machine again?
That's this one right here.
What do you call it?
Tell me what it is.
It's a composition machine.
I just cut the metal part off, so don't touch it.
It's still hot.
Oops.
Don't touch it.
I just finished.
This was the one that you just saw after.
I just finished running it.
So this is how the company was started.
The Lanston Monotype Company sent a representative with sample machinery to the Panama Pacific Exposition, and he remained in San Francisco.
And that was when?
1915.
So it's an old company here in town.
George McKenzie was the name, and he was joined in the early 20s by Carol T. Harris.
They formed the partnership of McKenzie and Harris.
So that's where you get the name, M&H Tide.
And so give me an idea of the kinds of jobs that you get there.
Not all fine-pressed books by, I mean, it's regular professional commercial work that people... Well, these days, there's less and less book work being done.
And the composition side of the Tide Foundry is not as active as it once was.
There are more people using computer-generated typography.
And if they're letterpress printers, many of them are using photopalmer plates for their printing.
But we continue to use this, and many other printers do too, because it's far superior to what can be generated on the computer.
We're using the classic faces and able to get a better impression.
So the superiority does come in the impression that you get.
And also the ability to make changes.
If you find that you've made a mistake in a computer-generated job, you've got a page here, you've got a plate made.
The plate is expensive.
If there's a mistake, you have to go back and make a little more plate.
Here, we can change a letter or two.
Thank you, Louis.
Thank you, Sarah.
Appreciate it.
Nice technique.
Good to see you.
Is there any relationship to the paper tape and the piano roll?
Well, absolutely.
I mean, it's the same technology was developed in the 19th century.
We're working on a book about the history of M.H.
type.
And that all will be revealed.
And people come here.
The knitting machine, the weaving machine.
The design department from Adobe has been coming here for years to study the historic spaces.
And a good analogy is with photography and the generations of prints, beginning with the original negative, the original negative being like the metal type, where as a piece of structure in metal, it has the form with
the ability to cast shadows.
More of the things.
So what you see behind the temporary shelving of fonts on the left are cases like this.
It's a vast type collection.
There are 4,000 cases.
You can go into a library and find one of the great printed books and photograph the page.
and have computer-generated time made from the photograph.
But of course, you're losing so much.
You want to study the metal type.
Boy, this is fantastic.
One of the reason Andrew wanted to do the Bible was that, this was before the moving crisis, he had the type foundry, he had everything set up to do this tour de force of printing with letterpress.
And there just wasn't the sense that he would be able to keep it all together.
Unfortunately, he hasn't been able to keep it all together, but we didn't know that.
Is the Bible done now?
Are they Bible printed?
Yes, and we really want you to see that.
We're talking about the Bible.
The Bible seems bad.
So you're still producing Bibles.
We finished the printing on the last day of August in 2000, around the first copies that fall.
But it's a long, interminable process.
With our whole crew here, we're able to get about three books a week found.
That's it?
Very labor intensive.
Wow, hey.
So there's a copy being sewn by hand.
And here's a copy that's been sewn and is now being rounded to the next station.
So the sewing of this step in here, right, is the next logical one.
Right.
Hi.
So here, this is a book just beginning to be sewn with linen thread over linen tape.
These are copies that have been sewn and have just been glued up.
And here are copies that have been round.
These are all hand sewn.
And back.
And the next step here will be
to sew on the silk headbands.
Please, you sew each signature, is that what it is?
Each section.
The section is... The signature is the printed sheet.
That's right, but that's like 16 pages, right?
Well, in this case it's 20 pages, so that we would have five, four-page signatures making up a sewing section.
I see.
And now the section's three times, so she goes right.
And that's another machine.
That's another person.
Really?
Working with that cradle.
No, just beyond the cradle.
The whole binding process is done by Hingon.
So how long will it take you to do one volume normally?
A volume like this?
About three and a half hours.
Well, so she can sew a book a day.
And...
What happens if they're absolutely all in order, right?
Does it ever happen?
No, that's all I'm saying.
It must happen.
Collating was one of the great feats.
Then you have the rare variant.
Well, that's right.
What happens if you find that?
Well, we did have a rare variant here within the last month, and it's really helpful.
Is it worth it just to...
forget about it?
No.
Take it apart and do it.
It would have been if this had not been a copy with illuminated initial letters.
That would have to be the case, right?
Yeah, we have only 150 copies that are hand illuminated.
No, this is not hand illuminated.
The standard issue is with red initial letters.
So there are 250 with red initial letters and 150 with
gold and colors applied by hand.
So what goes through first, the black or the red?
Actually, in the press run, because we have a two-color press, it's the red that's printed first and the black second, but it's one pass.
It is one pass.
Well, that's good.
So the printing took, what, a year and a half?
Do you have to check every sheet that comes out to make sure that that red is aligned properly?
Well, I was on the press throughout our printing.
There were two of us running the press.
And I was checking the sheets as they came into the delivery tray.
And what are you gluing, the end sheets?
We're gluing the end of the book so that there is some adhesive just barely between the sections.
Oh, okay.
And also glues to seal and strengthen the back of the book.
And that's an old-timey thing, too, that people do.
Right.
Are these made to order, basically?
Bound order, in a way.
People have a choice of one volume or two volumes.
They have the choice of whether they want initial letters or not, illuminated.
And they also have the choice of...
having a special dedication page at the beginning which you will print so are we making a dummy here does it have all the yellow paper in it so this is the next
This is the next book we're going to be doing, which has a yellow cover, but it will look very different when we go to bind it because it will have sort of emblematic workshop images printed like so on the yellow.
They'll be stamped or printed?
Printed.
And then the book is, well, these are all waste sheets.
The book will have whole sheets of
yellow, thin yellow paper for photogravures found into the book.
What's the title?
It's called The Ballad of Lemon and Crow by Glenn Todd and the artist is Bruce Conner.
We're also thinking hard about how we're going to do a slip paste or an enclosure for the book.
Are these Conner's designs?
He makes these inkblot drawings by folding the paper.
Are those reduced or are those that fit?
Those are a full scale.
They're very complicated.
You asked about the dedication.
And here we have, I believe, the last copy of Arcadia.
Of Arcadia.
The binders are always working on two or three projects at once.
That's great that you have the work.
Just imagine a lot of people who are interested in the binders are doing it because they think that this is an appropriate family area or an object that they can hand down.
Are there individuals buying it so much as institutions are?
A lot of individuals, and the thing I find
interesting is that these are not necessarily conventionally religious people, but they're attracted to the idea of having a precious work of art in the family, and I think it's a wonderful thing that they think of a book, you know, they think of a book, and it sort of takes you back to the idea of the Bible as an aesthetic object
representing literature for people, really no matter what their denominations are.
Well, this is a small job that we're doing right now, an invitation to a meeting of this artist book council that supports the artist book collection of the fine arts museums.
so there's two passes through as we say that's a red right in that case then he has to do two passes because that's what i was asking about the bible i mean did you print up x number of bibles or did you more or less sell them before no well we did a certain amount of pre-selling but i had to make a decision about the edition because i mean
You don't want to keep too much of that inventory around waiting to sell it either.
Well, you have to print the whole edition in months, of course.
That's right.
So we determined that we would publish 400 copies, and we bought paper accordingly.
It was a big investment.
And we also decided we would hand-illuminate the 150 copies, which also was a big investment.
But we didn't invest in the binding all at once.
Not that we could.
Oh, you had three different kinds of bindings in any case.
Yeah, right.
So you had to see what the... What, what the people wanted in cloth or leather.
That's a museum piece, isn't it?
Yeah.
That's a really good show.
We have Bruce Rogers portrayed up here.
And a library where we... Good for you.
Really, what a nice resolution to a...
I just wanted to show some of the pages from the Bible.
Individuals are buying it.
Libraries are buying it.
The main purpose of this, this is just a demonstration, is for liturgical use.
It's a book that's made.
These are the letters.
She those are gorgeous.
Local illuminators?
Yeah, it was done.
The design was worked out.
Well, first of all, the initial letters were done by Sumner Stone.
That's beautiful.
And then Thomas Ingmeyer joined us on the illumination.
Sumner Stone did the lettering for the word Bible.
The rest of the type is Jan van Kruppen's Romulus.
So it's designed to be read
by an officiant before a large congregation and readable without reading boxes.
Well, they can tell you where I am.
I can't read any of them these days.
And these are the covers?
Well, this is the standard binding in leather.
But we also offer full black linen for those who want to spend $750 less.
Most people want the leather.
Now an unusual thing about this Bible is that we set the prose text in full measure and then the metrical portions in double columns.
And it can go back and forth as in Jeremiah.
It's an English mold made paper.
English what, I'm sorry?
Moldmated.
Yeah.
So here you come along to, in Jeremiah, where it breaks into metrical.
And then you have the two columns.
And this Bible has also the Apocrypha in it.
It's 1,350 pages.
Hmm.
And it's all in one volume?
Oh no, this is just a demonstration.
It's just a demonstration.
But it's in how many volumes is it?
Well, it's in two volumes for most copies, but you can buy it in one.
Regardless for one or two volumes.
And what does it weigh?
It weighs about 50 pounds with the case.
And this is what the books look like in there.
Oh, yeah.
Spectacular.
And what do you call that size?
Folio.
That's a folio.
Isn't that larger than a folio?
Well, it's a large folio.
Yeah.
But not elephants.
Elephant is out of bars.
But that would be the next size beyond this would be an elephant.
Oh.
No?
Well, we'd have to look that up.
No, no, no.
Well, we've done books in all shapes and sizes here can see.
This is John Ashbery's Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.
That's wonderful.
This is Invisible Cities by Calvino.
That is ingenious.
This is one of the more unusual books we've done here just recently.
That's in steel, aluminum.
So it comes in a case of aluminum with a locking pin.
Isn't that something?
Is there a point to it?
This one is good.
Absolutely.
I like that question because I hope that there is a point or a reason for everything you try to do here.
That's an aluminum binding.
It's a book that has only a back cover.
And the cover that goes over it is like three,
container case with a locking case.
And Andrew invented it all.
I did invent this one.
It was the hardest thing ever.
And the whole thing.
The concept.
But the conceit really has to be the title.
Yeah, you have to check your title.
So, all right.
You look on this page, can you see the word individual?
Yep.
Oh, I didn't see that.
My copy.
You have invisible running down here until it hits the bottom line where it's inked, invisible cities.
How did you get that into the paper?
Well, we printed it without any... It's called blind... What's it called, blind what?
Blind embossing or blind stamping.
Oh, blind stamping.
Yeah.
So then you turn, after the pre-title page, you could consider this
You could consider this the dust jacket.
You could consider this the cover.
You could consider that the pre-title.
That's true.
That's the pre-title.
Then there's this blank page, but it's got somebody's signature on it.
And you turn the lead, and then it looks like it's Wayne Thiebaud signing his own drawing.
But you didn't see that drawing too well because it was on black papers until it came to the page.
We have a conventional title page, a conventional content, an introduction by the translator, and then a number for section one with a hint of color, and you see this blue field on the page.
So you have all these different colored papers hiding the drawings.
So these are all cityscapes by... How do you spell the people's name?
T-H-I-E-B-A-U-T-H-I-E B-A-U-D-Wayne
Can you collaborate with Calvino?
I know Calvino is dead for it.
Calvino has been dead for quite a while.
Ten years or so.
So these are recent, very recent.
Look at that.
So the reason for the binding is that I was having to join all these different elements.
White paper, colored papers, and sheets of clear mylar, plastic.
Not in any predictable order, because they had to fall within the sections.
So, before Timo does the pictures, did you do the print job first and give him the space to work?
You've got to think of formats and stuff.
How are you going to put this?
That's a good question.
We did that.
We set the book and said, this is page one.
So you're basically giving him a hole that he can work in to work within to do a picture, whether it's going to be horizontal or vertical, or it's going to be staggered along the type.
You've already decided that you can have a success.
Well, we also sort of worked, I can't remember exactly how we worked back and forth on this, but obviously I provided him with a narrow measure here so he could do something vertical.
And here, since the image, the text image was so small, we placed it in the middle of the page, and he drew around it.
And how do you reproduce these Mylar sheets?
They're printed by letterpress from photopolymer plates.
And there was the question, would this work?
Was it going to smear?
Would it ever dry?
Was it going to chip off?
Those are good questions.
Well, these are the questions my printers were asking.
They never work.
How did you resolve that?
I said, let's give it a try.
We tested it first, right?
Well, we did test it.
Unfortunately, we had this old proof, fabulous old proof dryer, which was electrically heated with a fan in it.
Many, many drawers, and screen drawers, so that the air would circulate.
We put... Is it a special ink?
No.
Right off the shelf?
Just off the shelf.
So the last illustration is shown on the aluminum or on the paper.
And this image is also done as an action.
And again, to go back to my question of the point of that painting.
Well, the hardest thing I had to do was to figure out how to find this book.
And I hadn't solved the problem when we went to press.
So we went to the trouble of printing this book so that it could be bound in a conventional manner, but with tip-ins, so that the colored papers would have been tipped into the book
And the mylar would have had to have been hand-sanded on one area just in order to get it to stick to paper.
It would have been enormously time-consuming.
And then I was on an airplane, and I knew it had to be a ring-binding sort of book.
Ring-bindings bind up to paper.
You remember your old school notebook where the pages, you know,
holes were always tearing out.
Well, that's because that's how a conventional ring binder works.
But with a hoop binding and with only a back cover, you don't have that problem.
So what popped into my head was, of course, it's the calendar.
Turn the pages of your calendar.
99.99.
We did 400.
But only a few of them came with an extra print.
Right.
100?
40 or 50?
40.
That's great.
So let's go on to the gallery.
That's Robert Motherwell, James Porter, Joyce's Ulysses.
These are woodblock bricks by Martin Currier or Kane by Jean Toomer.
There's the etching by... That's what we're just looking at in there.
Oh, and this is our gallery.
Yeah.
Our edition of Moby Dick, which was hand-set.
Which is very old.
Yeah.
Very, very nice.
Ape and Cat.
This is one of our artist books with Jim Dine.
That's a wonderful...
And these are prints for the next publication.
See, we often publish prints in conjunction with the publication.
Makes sense.
Sure.
This is the cane that I was showing you.
He made that box for the book as a sculptor.
That's wonderful.
Now, at this end of the room, we have a little piece of complication, which is Tom Stockard's play, Arcadia.
And it is unusual for two reasons.
The prints fold out from under the front and back cover.
So you can look at all four illustrations at once.
There are also continuous tone prints.
printed by an iris printing process.
So they're continuous tone prints, and you see the large print versions of them here, showing the landscape of Arcadia as it changes from 1735 to the present.
scenes that the audience never gets to.
And it's at the same location.
Same location, but in regards to changes.
1735, 1809, 1812, and the present.
Again, your invention.
Yeah.
With an introduction by Diana, a scholarly introduction about the history of E. Wood's garden.
These are the framed large prints.
There's a prince.
So those aren't the original art.
But they look so close to the watercolor.
Well, they look like white.
There's a white hat back there.
So we have Arcadia indoors and Arcadia outside.
You were so intrigued by how the text and the image could be integrated.
And this is certainly one of the characteristics of what Andrew does, not just prints inserted into a conventionally bound book.
Again, you set the text first.
Did you send me some materials you were going to give me?
Yes.
You can send it to me if you want to.
Do you have the patience to watch a seven-minute video?
You know what?
I haven't even talked to you.
Oh, no, I mean, I wanted to give it to you.
Oh, okay.
It was done on the Jim Lehrer News Hour.
Oh, I'd love to have that.
Yeah, that would be great.
Seven minutes is very good.
Yeah, excuse me.
Is it William T. William?
William T. William?
Wiley.
Wiley, of course, yeah.
So these are unique works, and here is the print that we published in conjunction with the book.
I cut it up into six parts to bind it into the book.
So you see, here's how it fits into the model.
I'm looking at it upside down.
Yeah.
Oh, sure.
It's a streetscape.
Very nice.
Congratulations.
Thanks.
Glad to have you come.
Sorry we weren't able to do it before the logistics of getting out here while I was closing the book.
Well, in a way, I'm so happy you were able to see us in our new location.
Yeah, well, I'd like to have seen the old one, too.
But I'm writing a lot of, I continue to work.
Sure.
That's great.
Thanks a lot.
Is that what you're talking about in a book?
Well, kind of.
We'll see what I talk about when we get up there.
Yeah, I'm talking about my continuing work in this book.
Thanks a lot for everything.
We'll see you tonight.
In a couple hours.